Spec for column vs image size (#4887)
microsoft/AdaptiveCards: specs/DesignDiscussions/ImagevColumn.md

# Consistency spec: Image size vs Column size

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
    - [Current Problem](#current-problem)
    - [What's happening behind the scenes?](#whats-happening-behind-the-scenes)
    - [Proposed Solutions](#proposed-solutions)
        - [Honoring Image Size](#honoring-image-size)

## Overview

### Current problem

> As part of the solution to the Column width behaviour it was thought that images could be used as a reference to provide the minimum size needed to render an `auto` width column. This asseveration is not correct, as some of our scenario cards don't follow that principle, take for example the [FlightDetails card](), in this card we have an image whose `width` is `1000px`, if we were to honour the measurements given by the card author we would get a card where this long image occupies most of the width of the column set as can be seen in the views generated by the iOS and the Android renderers.

Reviewer: Thanks for trying to add context here. But can you also link to the "Column width behavior" issue that you are referring to here for clarification? Thanks

Reviewer: Is it https://github.com/microsoft/AdaptiveCards/pull/4722 ?

> As part of the solution to the Column width behaviour it was thought that images could be used as a reference to provide the minimum size needed to render an `auto` width column. This asseveration is not correct, as some of our scenario cards don't follow that principle, take for example the [FlightDetails card](), in this card we have an image whose `width` is `1000px`, if we were to honour the measurements given by the card author we would get a card where this long image occupies most of the width of the column set as can be seen in the views generated by the iOS and the Android renderers.

Reviewer: :) I had to look up the dictionary for that one :) - Could we use 'assumption' here?

> As part of the solution to the Column width behaviour it was thought that images could be used as a reference to provide the minimum size needed to render an `auto` width column. This asseveration is not correct, as some of our scenario cards don't follow that principle, take for example the [FlightDetails card](), in this card we have an image whose `width` is `1000px`, if we were to honour the measurements given by the card author we would get a card where this long image occupies most of the width of the column set as can be seen in the views generated by the iOS and the Android renderers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of the solution to the Column width behavior it was thought that images could be used as a reference to provide the minimum size needed to render an `auto` width column. This assumption is not correct as some of our scenario cards don't follow that principle. Take for example the [FlightDetails card](), where we have an image whose `width` is `1000px`; If we were to honor the measurements given by the card author we would get a card where this long image occupies most of the width of the column set as can be seen in the views generated by the iOS and the Android renderers.
```

| Platform | Rendered card |
| --- | --- |
| JS (Best looking rendering) | <img src="assets/ImageColumn/GoodFlightDetails.png" width="400px">| 
| iOS | <img src="assets/ImageColumn/iOSFlightDetails.png" width="400px"> |
| Android | <img src="assets/ImageColumn/androidFlightDetails.png" width="400px"> |

### What's happening behind the scenes?

As we have seen, Javascript is generating the better looking card, but how does it do it? As we can see in the columnset, there are other columns that have images on them so why don't they shrink as well? The difference between columns 1, 3, 4 and column 2 is that the second column has `stretch` width, so after changing that width to `auto` we got a similar behaviour to the iOS and Android platforms: 

| Rendered view | Schema
| --- | --- |

> | <img src="assets/ImageColumn/BadFlightDetails.png" width="800px"> | <img src="assets/ImageColumn/BadRenderSchema.png" width="800px"> |

Reviewer: This results in a 404.. Does this need to include the relative path here vis "..\assets"?
